Critique by Matt Cook

Definitely good to be spending the week familiarizing yourself with the libraries, as that is important to the actual implementation, as well as giving ideas for how you ought to design the language that can be easily implemented in the semantics. One thing that would be good to do is to include the source code for what you have been messing around with, even if overall it won't be meaningful, it is good to show the progress you have made in tinkering around.

I do agree that starting with the equalizer bars for visualizing the sound would probably be the best start as that is more concrete. I am still not entirely sure how the language design will look to create these bars? Will you allow the user to specify the bars and the frequency they should be associated with? That seems like it could possibly be promising, as that could be the first "shape" you allow users to define (e.g. be able to define "rectangle" or "bar", and the frequencies/sound that should be associated with this shape, and then the user can define multiple of these). Another aspect of this would be to decide whether users can define how the shapes are animated. One way to start at least could be to simply not allow users to define that yet, and making it so that bars/rectangles sue the equalizer bar type animation, circles simply expand bigger and smaller, etc. in ways you choose. Maybe some randomness (or synced with music speed or something) to the overall size and shape would be cool (like the rectangle becomes wider, overall taller, changing colors, etc.).

Some good ways to evaluate the language can then be "how easy is it to define these sound visualizers? Is it tedious to have these shapes associated with a given sound? Can an interesting visualization be made with a very simple definition of your language?". I think a big focus now should really be on the IR of the language, as the syntax/interface could just be (or at least initially) just the IR itself. 

I looked a bit into existing libraries/tools/projects that are useful and relevant to your project, and one I came across that looks interesting is this: [SoundVisualizer](https://github.com/broseidon91/SoundVisualizer). Here is a youtube video for a demo: [Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nuHmMh3vXhU). It has pretty cool effects that seems to involve randomness as well as following the cursor for different effects. The source code could be useful to look at for examples of how this is done.

Here is another example that uses the same minim library to make an audio visualizer: [atomic sprocket](https://gist.github.com/benfarahmand/6902359). Looking further into it, it seems like Minim uses the JavaSound API! It looks promising, here is a [link](http://code.compartmental.net/tools/minim/). It has features for beat detection, audio playback (including mp3), and FFT where you can generate a frequency spectrum, which could be cool for visualization possibly. It also links to a [MP3SPI](http://www.javazoom.net/mp3spi/mp3spi.html) library that adds support for mp3 if you are interested (minim uses that, so possibly the Minim library would be all you need!).



